Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major issue worldwide which is a condition characterized by a gradual loss of kidney function over time, 14% of the world population suffer from CKD. Over 2 million people worldwide currently receive treatment with dialysis or a kidney transplant to stay alive, yet this number may only represent 10% of people who need treatment to live. Chronic kidney disease causes more deaths than breast cancer or prostate cancer . The stages of CKD are mainly based on the measured or estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) which is based on creatinine level, gender, race and age. There are five stages of kidney functionality.

Chronic kidney disease, also called chronic kidney failure, describes the gradual loss of kidney function. Your kidneys filter wastes and excess fluids from your blood, which are then excreted in your urine. When chronic kidney disease reaches an advanced stage, dangerous levels of fluid, electrolytes and wastes can build up in your body.

In the early stages of chronic kidney disease, there may have few signs or symptoms. Chronic kidney disease may not become apparent until your kidney function is significantly impaired.

Treatment for chronic kidney disease focuses on slowing the progression of the kidney damage, usually by controlling the underlying cause. Chronic kidney disease can progress to end-stage kidney failure, which is fatal without artificial filtering (dialysis) or a kidney transplant.

CKD can be caused due to lack of water consumption, smoking, improper diet, loss of sleep and many other factors. This disease affected 753 million people globally in 2016 in which 417 million are females and 336 million are males. Majority of the time the disease is detected in its final stage and which sometimes leads to kidney failure.

The existing system of diagnosis is based on the examination of urine with the help of serum creatinine level. Many medical methods are used for this purpose such as screening, ultrasound method. In screening, the patients with hypertension, history of cardiovascular disease, disease in the past, and the patients who have relatives who had kidney disease are screened. This technique includes the calculation of the estimated GFR from the serum creatinine level, and measurement of urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) in a first morning urine specimen.

This project focus on machine learning techniques like Decision Tree by minimizing the features and selecting best features to improve the accuracy of the prediction.